# Requirements Elicitation

Requirement elicitation focus on the
description and the purpose of a systems
to be developed. The client developers
and potential users identify a problem or
even a problem area and therefore define
the system to address the identified
problem. Such a definition is called a
requirement specification and it serves
as an agreement or contract between the
clients and the developers. The
requirement specification is structured
and formalized during the analysis phase
and it's based on a so called problem
statement, which is described during
requirement elicitation.

## Problem Statement

The initial problem statement is most
likely generated during or even before
the project starts, hence it has been
created by a person which is not
necessarily a developer but he or she
has an idea which could be developed in
the future. Therefore the first real
problem statement can even be thought or
a vague description of a system to be
built.

> It describes requirements, the
decomposition in multiple subsystems as well it provides the communication
infrastructure through address certain
issues.

The problem statement also describes the
current situation, the functionality
support and the environment in which the
system should be deployed. It also
defines the deliver expected by the
client together with the delivery date and a
set of acceptance criteria.

The problem
statement may also specify constraints
on the development environment, such as
the program leverage to be used. Usually
it is developed by the project manager
and decline as a mutual understanding of
the problem to be addressed by the
system. However the problem statement is
not precise or complete specification of
the system. Instead it is a high-level
summary of to two project documents to
be developed: The requirements analysis
document and the software project
management plan. Requirements can be
divided into two major categories, namely
functional and non-functional
requirements.

## Funcational and Non-Functional Requirements

**Functional** requirements are
composed of multiple functions. Whereas a
function can be described as a set of
inputs, the behavior of the system and is
given outputs. They should be precise,
correct, complete, consistent and
unambiguous. 

**Non-functional** requirements
are aspects of the system not directly
related to its functions. They can span a
number of issues, starting from the user
interface look and feel, to certain
response time requirements and other
security issues.
