# Analysis

The purpose of analysis is to create a model of the system which is correct,
complete, consistent and also verifiable.
This model is called the analysis model.

So we start from the requirements elicitation, go over to the requirements specification
and describe the non-functional requirements and the functional model and then start with
analysis.

## Formalization

During analysis we create a dynamic model and an analysis object model.
These models can be used as a base for discussion going back towards requirements elicitation
and refining existing models.
The final outcome of the analysis is a so called analysis model which consists of the
dynamic model and the analysis object model of the system to be built.
Communication is the most challenging task during requirements analysis:


## Tasks and Expectations
* The customers have different backgrounds and expectations.
* Users, clients and developers have different domains of expertise and use different vocabularies
to describe the same concepts.
    *  Users want a system 
that supports their current web processes, whereas clients aim to maximize
their return on invest.
* The developer needs to deliver the system and time.

Different expectations can lead to problems if for example the developer does not properly
understand the needs of the user. Due to the diversity of views and expectations in a project, stakeholders need to share information
and report problems in a timely manner.

And it is the job of the developers to initiate communication.
Especially in large development projects there're conflicting objectives and there's no communication
mechanisms that addresses all communication problems that might occur.

However there are a few simple guidelines to follow.
* First you have to define clear territories. That includes the assignment of specific roles.
* The analyst is the application domain expert.
* He models the current system and communicates this to client.
( The architect (an integration role) unifies the use cases and the analysis object model
and is responsible for the communication within the developers.
* Furthermore clients and developers need to define clear measurable and verifiable objectives
and success criteria in the requirements analysis document or as part of the client acceptance
criteria in the problem statement.
* Brainstorming, that is putting all the stakeholders in the same room to quickly generate solutions
and definitions, can remove many barriers in communication and can lead to the definition
of shared notations that support a communication.
Storyboards and user interface sketches often appear spontaneously during brainstorming
sessions.
* However it is also important that precise instruction notations are used.
* Developers use use cases and analysis object models to communicate with other developers.


There is a need for formalization and standardization to deal with ambiguity.