# Project Organization and Management
 
With companies facing increasing companies and change in technology, managing projects that last from a few weeks to several years can be a challenging task. Thankfully project organization allows this effort to be focused and efficiently targeted. 

A **project** is defined as an undertaking that is:

* limited in time
* has a clear goal and a specific budget
* requiring a concerted effort

Hence tere are many facets of a project that must be managed by a project manager and the members of the teams undertaking that project. 

**Project management** is defined as technologies, methodologies, tools and heuristics that support the development of:

* high quality software
* within a given budget
* within a given deadline
* adapting to any changes (speciallly true in longer term projects)

## Breakdown of Project Tasks and Roles

A software engineering project consists of a number of **tasks** that the project manager is responsible for overseeing. 

Now each of these tasks are assigned to various **roles** in the project organization structure. Some typical roles are developer, UI designer, Data Scientist, Backend Engineer etc. These roles are distributed to a **participant** which is usually an employee or a contractor of the company undertaking the project. Participants be responsible of one or more roles as well. This is specially true in smaller companies like startups where one person has multiple roles. Then two or more participants form a **team**. 

Tasks, Roles, Participant and Team make up the general vocabulary used to structure the responsibilities in project management. 

Now each of these tasks are assigned to various **roles** in the project organization structure. Some typical roles are developer, UI designer, Data Scientist, Backend Engineer etc. These roles are distributed to a **participant** which is usually an employee or a contractor of the company undertaking the project. Participants be responsible of one or more roles as well. This is specially true in smaller companies like startups where one person has multiple roles. Then two or more participants form a **team**. 

[Here](https://courses.edx.org/asset-v1:TUMx+SEECx+3T_2017+type@asset+block@SEECx17_w1u1_Project_Organization.pdf) is a illustrated diagram by Technische Universität München's course on the topic. 

## Tasks and Activities

* A task describes the smallest amount of work that is tracked by the project manager
    * Typically 2 - 10 working days
    * They have a start date, duration and relate to a work product
    * They are associated with a role 
* An activity is a major unit of work and culminates in a project milestone:
    * Scheduled event used to visualize/measure progress
    * Visible to the customer
    * Produces Deliverable

## Organization Forms

### Functional Organization
People are grouped into departments, each of which addresses an activity function.

### Project Based Organizations
People are assigned to a project, each of which has a problems to be solved in a certain time within a given budget.


### Matrix Organization
People from different departments of a functional organization are assigned to work on one or more projects.

