# Object Oriented Programming

Object Oriented Programming is a programming paragdigm based on the concept of real world objects which contains functions (real world procedures, also known as methods) and attributes (data containing characteristics about the object). 

The philosphical approach of Object Oriented programming is to use the divide and conquer method towards software problems. 

Described in Sun Tzu's "The Art of War"

> It is the rule in war, if ten times the enemy's strength, surround them; if five times, attack them; if double be able to divide them; if equal,engage them; if fewer, defend against them; if weaker, be able to avoid them. (Art of War)

Likewise, system design is desribed as the following:

> During system design, developers define the design goals of the project and 
decompose the system into smaller subsystems that can be realized by 
individual teams. ( Bernd Bruegge and Allen Dutoit. Object Oriented Software Engineering Using UML, Patterns, and Java. Prentice Hall, 3rd edition)

## Integrated Development Environment

An object oriented programming language is usually developed in an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) which saves time and adds simplicity to your project by adding the following features:

* Compiling multiple source code files in different folders makes project organization much simpler
* Syntax highlighting (PyLint, Vim Plugins) saves a lot of time while writing code

Some popular IDEs are Eclipse for Java and PyCharm for Python. 

## Object Oriented Programming Concepts

### Object

> An object is a software bundle of related state and behaviour (Oracle Docs).

An object in software is modeled after object we interact with in everyday life and imitates its state and behaviour. An object is an instance of a **class**


### Class 

> A class is a blueprint or prototype from which objects are created (Oracle Docs). 

A class models the state and behaviours of a real world object. 

A good differentiation of a class and an object would be that a 'laptop' computer is a class whereas a MacBook is an object of the class laptop. 

Another another differentiation would be that a fruit is an 'abstract class' whereas an apple is an object that retains the properties of the class fruit and hence is an insntance of it. 

## Object Oriented Programming Principles

The object oriented programming paradigm supports four major principles:

### Encapsulation

Means of creating classes to define:
* Structure by using attributes
* Functionality by providing methods/practices

### Inheritance

Allows to reuse data structures by using an inheritance heirarchy:

* Use of structure to access attributes of a superclass
* Use of funcationality by accessing methods of a super-class

### Polymorphism

* Extends inheritance by allowing modification of functionality by overriding methods of a superclass
* We override an existing method of a superclass inside of a sub-class

### Abstraction

* The ability to define an abstract structure which holds common states, behaviour or attributes
* We can make abstract classes (ex. person would be in abstract superclass where subclesses would be strudent and teacher)

## Sources
* [Object Oriented Programming Concepts (Oracle)](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/)
* [EDX SEECX: Object Oriented Programming](https://courses.edx.org/asset-v1:TUMx+SEECx+3T_2017+type@asset+block@SEECx17_w3u1_Basics_of_OOP_1.pdf)
* [EDX SEECX: Object Oriented Programming 2](https://courses.edx.org/asset-v1:TUMx+SEECx+3T_2017+type@asset+block@SEECx17_w3u2_Basics_of_OOP_2.pdf)