# Version Control Systems

In the history of version control different approaches existed.
Starting with local version control systems such as RCS of CVS that only stored versions
on a local computer without any connection to other computers.
Later centralized version control tools allowed collaboration between developers, for example
**subversion**.

Nowadays distributed version control tools such as GIT are mostly used where developers
can also send changes to each other without a remote repository.
Version control allows many developers to collaboratively work on configuration items
in a given project, for example source code and XML files
Developers create version by committing the changes of the files and these versions are
stored in a commit history so the developers can restore previous versions easily.

This also allows to see how configuration items changed over time and who actually changed
a certain item, for example a line of code in a class.
Distributed version control, also known as decentralized version control provides more
flexibility because developers can also work offline and it allows more features such as
local branch link and offline community.


## Monolythic Archicecture

* Programmers have a local version database that keeps all the changes to a file under
revision control on the local computer. They can check out files, change these files and
create new versions of the files including these changes.
* There is no server computer included and developers would need to copy the files on disks or USB
sticks in order to exchange them.

An example for local version control of the monolithic architecture would be **RCS**.


## Repository Architecture

* A single server contains all the versions and multiple programmers visualized here with
computer A and computer B can check out files from the server to their local computer.
* If they change these files they commit their changes back into the central server that
includes the version database.
* This means that developers can only create versions if they are connected to the central VCS.

Advantage:
*  Administrators have fine-grained control over which developer can do what
Disadvantage: that there is a single point of failure.

If the central version control server crashes the developers might lose all the versions
in the complete history.

Then it would not be possible anymore to restore older versions.
An example for centralized version control is subversion, which is still used in a lot
of companies and projects in these days.


## Peer-to-peer Architecture

Peer-to-peer architectures for version control solve the single point of failure problem
of central version control.
* Each developer computer fully mirrors the version database, which we call repository
to their local computers.
* This means that each developer can access all versions locally, without a connection
to the server computer.
* If the server dies, the developer still has full copy of the repository.
* All versions can be copied back to the server computer.
* This approach allows developers to work offline on their own versions and to create commits
and branches locally.
* They only need to synchronize the commits and branches to the server computer in case
they want to promote the versions to other developers.
* In addition it could also bypass the server computer and send the changes for a new version
directly to another developer.

An example for a peer-to-peer architecture and version control is the nowadays mostly
used distributed version tool GIT.

## Distrubuted Version Control vs CVS

The advantages of distributed version control are the developers can work offline and
produce local commits without having a connection to the remote server.
They only need to synchronize the commits in case they want to share them with their
fellow developers.

Distributed version control usually leads to smaller commits because developers can
work incrementally and commit their changes more often, as the commits are faster.
Developers can switch the context more efficiently due to lightweight branching.
They can create branches locally then only the changes between
branches are stored and not all files and folders of a branch are copied as it was in
centralized version control.

This also leads to the advantage that developers can explore multiple versions of their code
more efficiently when they create branches.
However distributed version control also has disadvantages.
The learning curve is higher because developers need to use more commands.

Developers also need to check out all files in all versions of a repository on their local
computer, which can lead to scaling issues in large repositories, and when large files
are stored in a repository. Centralized version control usually allows to check out parts
of the repository, for example only a certain folder so you can omit the parts in the repository
where the large files are stored.

Sources:
* https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:TUMx+SEECx+1T2018/courseware/613843b156c84980b9a845a62b767635/923bb612e06c4b0687143c3f8a4dcdea/1?activate_block_id=block-v1%3ATUMx%2BSEECx%2B1T2018%2Btype%40vertical%2Bblock%40151de0c0cc894e14a50196243d56928f
* https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control
* https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2008/09/the-top-7-open-source-version-control-systems/